# Main Concepts

## 1. JSX

**JSX** is a javascript sugar for reactjs. It is recommended being used in React to describe what the UI should look like.
JSX may remind you of template language, but **it comes with the full power of javascript**.
JSX produces React *'element'*.

### Embedding Expressions in JSX

```javascript
const name = 'Josh'
const element = <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('app')
)
```

You can put any valid JavaScript expression inside the curly braces in JSX.

### JS is an Expression Too

### Specifying Attributes with JSX

### Specifying Children with JSX

JSX tag may contain children:

```javascript
const element = (
  <div>
    <h1> Hello</h1>
    <h2> Good to see you here</h2>
  </div>
)
```

### JSX Represents Objects

Babel compiles JSX down to React.createElement() calls.

These two are identical:

```javascript
const element = (
  <h1 className="greeting">
    Hello, world!
  </h1>
)
```

```javascript
const element = React.createElement(
  'h1',
  {className: 'greeting'},
  'Hello, world!'
)
```

## 2. Rendering an Element into the DOM

```javascript
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
const ele = <h1>Hello, world<h1>
ReactDOM.render(ele, document.getElementById('root'))
```

## 3. Components and Props

### 3.1 Functional and class Components

The simplest way to define a component is to write a JavaScript function:

```javascript
function Welcome (props) {
  return (
    <h1> Hello, {props.name}</h1>
  )
}
```

This function is a valid React component because it accepts a single “props” (which stands for properties) object argument with data and returns a React element. We call such components “functional” because they are literally JavaScript functions.

You can also use an **ES6 class** to define a component:

```javascript
class Welcome extends React.Component {
  render () {
    return <h1> Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>
  }
}
```

The above two components are equivalent from React’s point of view.

### 3.2 Rendering a Component

```javascript
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}

const element = <Welcome name="Sara" />;
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

The render method will be called each time an update happen.

### 3.3 Composing Components

### 3.4 Extracting Components

**We recomemmd naming props from the component's own view rather than the context in which it is being used.**
The **DRY** principle to create a component.

### 3.5 Props are Read-Only

Consider this *sum* function:

```javascript
function sum (a, b) {
  return a + b
}
```

Such functions are called “pure” because they do not attempt to change their inputs, and always return the same result for the same inputs.

In contrast, this function is impure because it changes its input:

```javascript
function withdraw (account, amount) {
  account.amount -= amount
}
```

React is pretty flexible but it has a single strict rule that **all React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.**

## 4. State and Lifecycle

The **state** is similar to **props**, but it is private and entirely controlled by the component of it and only available to classes.

The differences between a pure function component and an **ES6** class component is the function component does have a state.

```javascript
import React, { Component } from 'react'
import './index.scss'

class Tick extends Component {
  // Class components should always call the base constructor with props.
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {
      date: new Date()
    }
  }
  // render function returns an instance of React class
  render () {
    return (
      <div className="Tick">
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
        <h2>`It's ${this.state.date.toLocaleTimeString()}` </h2>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default Tick
```

### 4.1 Adding Lifecycle Methods to a Class

The **componentDidMount()** hook runs will execute when the component output renders to the DOM.

In react, we use **this.setState()** to update a local state for a component.

If the a component is ever removed from the DOM, React calls the **componentWillUnmount()** lifecycle hook, so the timer is stopped.

### 4.2 Using State Correctly

- Do not modify **state** directly
- State Updates May Be asynchronous

React may batch multiple **setState** call into a single update for performance. Because **this.props** and **this.state** may be updated asynchronously, you should not rely on their values for calculating next state.
The recommaned ways could be either:

#### 4.3 Update state by **setState**

```javascript
this.setState((state, props) => {
  return {
    counter: state.count + props.increment
  }
})
```

or :

```javascript
this.setState((prevState, props) => ({
  counter: prevState.counter + props.increment
}));
```

**setState** function accepts a function rather than an object.

### 4.4 State Updates are Merged

When you call **setState**, React merges the object you provide into current state.

### 4.5 The Data Flows Down

*The Data Flows Down** is commonly called a “top-down” or “unidirectional” data flow. Any state is always owned by some specific component, and any data or UI derived from that state can only affect components “below” them in the tree.

## Understanding virtual dom and key property

### How virtual dom works

**Virtual dom** is the operation basic for JSx. For react component, it has a virtual dom which maps to real dom. Whenever there is a change on it, it will map the change which based on **DOM diff** to real dom automatically.

**DOM diff** bases on **the breadth-first algorithm**.

## 6. Handling Events

Handling events with React is very similar to handling events on DOM elements. There are some syntactic differences:

- React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase.
- With JSX, you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.
- Another difference is that you cannot return false to prevent default behavior in React. You must call preventDefault explicitly.

```javascript
function ActionClick () {
  function handleClick (e) {
    e.preventDefault()
    console.log('The click was clicked!')
  }

  return (
    // For actionClick function, this will be undefined withou binding declaration
    <a href="#" onClick={handleClick.bind(this)}>Click me </a>
  )
}
```

Here, *e* is a synthetic event. React defines these synthetic events according to the W3C spec, so you don’t need to worry about cross-browser compatibility. See the [SyntheticEvent](https://reactjs.org/docs/events.html) reference guide to learn more.</br>

## 6. Conditional Rendering

```javascript
function Greeting (props) {
  const isLoggedIn = props.isLoggedIn
  if (isLoggedIn) {
    return <UserGretting>
  }
  return GuestGreeting
}

ReactDOM.render(
  <Greeting isLoggedIn={false} />
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

### 6.1 Preventing Component from Rendering

In rare cases you might want a component to hide itself event though it was rendered by another component. To do this return **null** instead of its render output.

```javascript
function WarningBanner (props) {
  if (props.warn) {
    return null
  }
  return (
    <div className="warn">
      {this.props.warn}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## 7. Lists and keys

### 7.1 Rendering Multiple Components

### 7.2 Keys

Keys help React identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed. **Keys should be given to the elements inside the array to give the elements a stable identity:**

```javascript
class ShoppingList extends Component {
  render () {
    const items = this.props.items || []
    const ListItems = items.map((item, index) => {
      return (
        // Dont use index as a key. Not recomended. This can negatively impact in performance and may cause issues with component state.
        <li key={item.name} className="list-item">
        <ShoppingItem name={item.name} amount={item.amount}/>
        </li>
      )
    })

    return (
      <div className="shoping-list-wrapper">
        <ul className="shopping-list">
          {ListItems}
        </ul>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
```

**Dont use index as a key. Not recommend. This can negatively impact in performance and may cause issues with component state.**

Here is an in-depth explanation of [why keys are necessary](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html#recursing-on-children) if you’re interested in learning more.

## 8. Forms

### 8.1 Controlled Components

In HTML, form elements such as **input**, **textarea**, and **select** typically maintain their own state and update it on user input.
An input form element whoes value is controlled by React in this way is called a **"controlled element"**.

Here is an example:

```javascript
import React from 'react'

class NameForm extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {
      value: ''
    }
    this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this)
    this.handleSubmit = ths.handleSubmit.bind(this)
  }

  handleChange(e) {
    this.setState({
      value: e.target.value
    })
  }

  handleSubmit(e) {
    e.preventDefault()
    window.alert(`A name was submitted: ${this.state.value}`)
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <form action="" name="nameForm" onsubmit={this.onsubmit}>
        <label htmlFor="name">Name: <input type="text"/ value={this.state.value} onChange={this.handleChange}></label>
        <input type="submit"/ value="submit">
      </form>
    )
  }
}
```

### 8.2 textarea and select

- The textarea tag

In HTML, **textarea** defines its text by its chidlren:

```html
<textarea>
  Hi, there.
</textarea>
```

In React, **textarea** uses a vake=ye attribute instead. This way, a form using **textarea** can be written very similarly to a form that uses a single-line input.

- The select tag

In HTML, the **select** tag creates a drop-down list. For example, this HTML creats a drop-down list of user's department:

```html
<select name="department" id="department">
  <option value="">Please select a department</option>
  <option value="Marketing" selected>Marketing</option>
  <option value="IT">IT</option>
  <option value="office">office</option>
</select>
```

In React, instead of using this **selected** attribute, uses a **value** attribute on the root **select** tag.

A full example about how to use **textarea** and **select** element in React is [examples/react/10.formSample](../../../../src/examples/react/10.formSample)

### 8.3 Controlled Input Null value

**If you have sepecified a value* but the input is still editable, you may have accidentally set value to undefined or null.**

## 9. Lifting State Up

**NO** **two-way binding** in React.

**Often, several components need to reflect the same changing data. We recommend lifting the shared state up to their closest common ancestor. Let’s see how this works in action.**

**There should be a single “source of truth” for any data that changes in a React application. Usually, the state is first added to the component that needs it for rendering. Then, if other components also need it, you can lift it up to their closest common ancestor. Instead of trying to sync the state between different components, you should rely on the [top-down data flow](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html#the-data-flows-down)**.

## 10. Composition vs. Inheritance

React has a powerful composition model, and we **recommend using composition** instead of inheritance to reuse code between components.

### 10.1 Containment

Some components don’t know their children ahead of time. This is especially common for components like Sidebar or Dialog that represent generic “boxes”.

We recommend that such components use the **special children prop** to pass children elements directly into their output:

- this.props.children

```javascript
const Wrapper = (props) => {
  return (
    <div className="wrapper">
      {this.props.children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

- props

Both ***Contacts*** and ***Chat** here are object. So we can pass then to children component as a props's property.

This lets other components pass **arbitrary children** to them by nesting the JSX:

```javascript
function SplitPanel(props) {
  return (
    <div className="SplitPane">
      <div className="SplitPane-left">
        {props.left}
      </div>
      <div className="SplitPane-right">
        {props.right}
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}

function App() {
  return (
    <SplitPanel
      left={
        <Contacts />
      }
      right={
        <Chat />
      } />
  )
}
```

### 10.2 Specialization

Sometimes we think about components as being “special cases” of other components. For example, we might say that a ***WelcomeDialog*** is a special case of ***Dialog**.

In React, this is also achieved by composition, where a more “specific” component renders a more “generic” one and configures it with props:

```javascript
function Dialog(props) {
  return (
    <FancyBorder color="blue">
      <h1 className="Dialog-title">
        {props.title}
      </h1>
      <p className="Dialog-message">
        {props.message}
      </p>
    </FancyBorder>
  );
}

function WelcomeDialog() {
  return (
    <Dialog
      title="Welcome"
      message="Thank you for visiting our spacecraft!" />

  );
}
```

### 10.3 So what about inheritance

At Facebook, we use React in thousands of components, and we haven’t found any use cases where we would recommend creating component inheritance hierarchies.

If you want to reuse non-UI functionality between components, we suggest extracting it into a separate JavaScript module. The components may import it and use that function, object, or a class, without extending it.

## 11. Thinking in React

In this chapter, we’ll walk you through the thought process of building a searchable product data table using React.

**A class should have only one reason to change**.
The **single responsibility principle**, that is, **a component should ideally do one thing**. If it ends up with growing, decompose it into smaller sub-components. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle)

A detailed example is here: [https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)
