# How To Test React App

Enzyme is a wrap of React official test tool. It's more convinient than official one.

So there will be two availble method for the same test case in React test.

- Test case write in official test tool

- Enzyme write

## Official test suite

There are two existing way for a React component: virtual dom(Instance of React.Component) and real DOM node. The official test tool of React provides solution two this two type of React component:

- Shallow Rendering: test virtual dom
- Dom Rendering: test real dom

### Shalow Rendering

Shallow rendering lets you render a component “one level deep” and assert facts about what its render method returns, without worrying about the behavior of child components, which are not instantiated or rendered. This does not require a DOM.

An example of test case in official test suite:

```javascript
import React from 'react'
import ShallowRenderer from 'react-test-renderer/shallow'

import Todo from './component'

describe('Todo wrapper is div', () => {
  // it is a test case
  it('App\'s title should be Todo', () => {
    const app = shallowRender(Todo)
    expect(app.props.children[0].type).toBe('h1')
  })
})


function shallowRender(Component) {
  const renderer =  ShallowRenderer.createRenderer()
  return renderer.render(<Component />)
}
```

The full code is <a href="../../../../src/test/01.demo"> here</a>

- shallowRenderer.render()

**shallowRenderer.render()** is similar to ReactDOM.render() but it doesn’t require DOM and only renders a single level deep. This means you can test components isolated from how their children are implemented.

- getRenderOutput

After **shallowRenderer.render()** has been called, you can use shallowRenderer.getRenderOutput() to get the shallowly rendered output.

### Test Renderer

```javascript
import TestRenderer from 'react-test-renderer'
```

**This package provides a React renderer that can be used to render React components to pure JavaScript objects**, without depending on the DOM or a native mobile environment.

- FindByType

**Find a single descendant test instance with the provided type.**

### Javascript Enviroment Requirements

**React 16 depends on the collection types Map and Set.**  If you support older browsers and devices which may not yet provide these natively (e.g. IE < 11) or which have non-compliant implementations (e.g. IE 11), consider including a global polyfill in your bundled application, such as core-js or babel-polyfill.

**A polyfilled environment for React 16 using core-js to support older browsers** might look like:

```javascript
import 'core-js/es6/map'
import 'core-js/es6/set'

import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'

ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

React also depends on requestAnimationFrame (even in test environments).
You can use the raf package to shim requestAnimationFrame:

```javascript
import 'raf/polyfill'
```
